# Flatiron Module 3 Final Project

## Objective
I imagined that we had been initially approached by the City of Chicago to analyse the traffic crash data they had accumulated between 2013 and 2021. We have been asked to first, identify problems (if any) with road safety and, if so, learn **what kind of improvements** should be targeted and **where (geographically) those improvements** on the ground may be necessary. As a side question, the City acknowledges that more people may want to cycle going forward and wants to encourage that; hence, looking ahead, they would like to briefly know more about crashes (and injuries) associated with doorings.

## Approach
The **primary objective** is to identify the model(s) trained on either the crash or vehicle data which can best predict which crashes will result in an injury of any description. Once identified, interpreting the model to isolate which factors are influential in predicting a crash which results in an injury; these factors are those that the City will need to bear in mind when implementing actual road safety measures.

We will attempt to achieve this in 3 steps:

1) **Exploratory Data Analysis** - In this step we will look at both the crash and vehicle dataset, remove null values and features with no predictive value and simplify real world data into inputs for supervised learning algorithms of SKlearn. This step also includes structuring the problem into a binary classification problem and a recognition of the class imbalance of the target class (which is a crash which results in an injury).  In this section we will also do some investigation around doorings and plot interactive maps which will enable the City to implement the findings of this project in a more targeted way.

2) **Evaluation of models for further investigation** - Having investigated and cleaned the data in the prior step, we train a variety of sklearn supervised learning algorithms and discover their evaluation metrics on a cross validated basis. Also includes a deeper discussion into why the project will a) prioritise Recall scores and b) evaluate each trained model against dummy classifiers and against each other to identify suitable models for further investigation.

3) **Conclusions drawn from investigating models** - Having identified one (or two) models for further analysis, we will peer under the hood of these models to identify which features were influential in that model's predictive output.  The most influential features are those that the City of Chicago needs to target when implementing actual road safety measures.

## Contents
This repository contains:
1) a Jupyter Notebook (Student.ipynb) which contains the EDA and actual analysis undertaken to reach certain conclusions and recommendations;
2) a pdf of a slide presentation (presentation.pdf), setting out the conclusions and recommendations to a non-technical audience;
3) the crash and vehicle datasets (the csv files) used for this project, downloaded from the City of Chicago at (https://data.cityofchicago.org/Transportation/Traffic-Crashes-Crashes/85ca-t3if);
4) various visualisations generated by running the code in the project, this includes trend analysis of injuries across various time periods and interactive maps tied to actual crash location data; and
4) a geojson file (police_beats.geojson) setting out the polygon shapes of various Chicago police beats which are in the dataset. This is used to draw the interactive crash map (crash_map.html)

## Usage
Clone the repository and run the Jupyter Notebook

## Other materials
I blogged about this project here: https://hsinhinlim.medium.com/not-a-complete-car-crash-85d4d8bb3de8
There is a YouTube video of a non-technical walkthrough of the slide presentation here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwNtfB4QY9M
